Previously on From…
Come here. come here.
Oh. no.
Knowledge comes at a cost.
They killed Jim because of us.
Anghkooey. It means…
Remember.
These kids keep calling you back
to help them.
How do we do it?
I'm working on it.
Julie and Ethan.
I don't know how. but I'm going
to find a way to take care of them.
to keep them safe.
-Hey!
-I don't want to be here anymore!
What did you do?
Why didn't he come home?
I did nothing!
You're lying!
I want Dad!
Ethan.
The night we arrived here.
you had a dream.
Lake of Tears?
It's here. and I need you to find it.
Ethan called it Storywalking.
I need you to give me some time.
even if it looks bad.
Dad!
Randall!
I got you.
Look at me.
Lord. please protect us
in this dark place.
Please stand by my daddy's bedside
and let him wake
renewed in your love.
My father died.
I'll talk to Boyd about a burial.
If people find out what you did…
Help!
No!
That's the kind of thing
that could tear this place apart.
You're gonna tell them
that you lost your eye
trying to help Fatima.
Hey. hey. whoa!
I'm a good person.
and I don't deserve to be here.
Get the strip.
What I'm doing is getting out.
There is no way out.
What the fuck is wrong with you?
I gave birth to one of them.
Dad. tell her that's not
what you're saying.
It's the one I killed.
I told all of you
that there was something inside me.
Sorry.
It's okay.
-I'll get out your way.
-No. you don't…
You don't need to go.
I just came to get a glass of water.
Boyd said if people
find out what happened...
I know.
We should probably get our story straight.
Are you okay?
I'm not really sure I deserve to be.
Elgin. I don't want to hate you.
This place took advantage of both of us.
None of us will ever be the same again…
will we?
No.
We won't.
There's something I need your help with.
Abby. stop!
No! Stop!
Oh. fuck.
Shit.
You want to tell me
what the hell that was yesterday?
Not really.
You're going to have to do
a little better than that.
What do you want me to say?
I want you to tell me
that you're not going
to lose your shit again
and put people's lives in danger.
You got lucky yesterday.
you understand that?
If Kristi had gotten hurt.
you and me are having
a different conversation right now.
Look. whoever that was yesterday.
that wasn't me. all right?
I don't want to be here.
Well good. We're working on that.
You know. Kristi told me yesterday
that she's seen dozens of people
with dozens of schemes
about how to leave this place.
There's only one thing
that they have in common.
You know what it is?
They all died.
Yeah.
Well…
Well. this time feels different.
Yeah. It's probably what they thought.
Can you give me a bullet?
I only need one.
I'll go into the woods.
And look. don't worry.
You won't even have to clean it up.
Sophia. I brought you some things
from your dad's car.
Thank you.
We're going to take him down
to the service now.
Can I have a minute to say goodbye?
Yeah. of course.
We'll be right outside
when you're ready. okay?
Okay.
You were fun.
I couldn't let you go
without something to remember you by.
Fuck!
Fuck.
Jade.
-What?
-Tell me you got something.
Does it fucking look like
I have something?
I…
Okay.
It's all… It's in here. It's in here.
I know it is.
There's more to this. There's more
to what we need to know. and I just…
I can't…
Fuck it.
You don't have any acid. do you?
What?
LSD.
What? Listen. Henry said
Miranda started seeing this place
after an acid trip they took.
which kind of makes sense
given. you know.
how the brain stores memory.
If it worked for her.
it stands to reason it could work for me.
Okay.
Take a breath. Take a breath.
If you're right and everything we need
is in your brain.
then the last thing we need
is for you to scramble it.
Just take a little time.
Get back to this after the funeral.
I'm not going to the funeral.
Trust me. I won't be missed.
Look. the best thing I can do for Tabitha.
for everybody here…
is just find a way to unlock
whatever is locked in here.
How are you going to do that?
I don't know.
Hey. Jade.
Be careful.
The message on the barn wall
wasn't fucking around.
Whatever answers you may find.
we have no idea
what they're going to cost.
You okay?
Doesn't fit.
Honey. I'm sorry. It was the only thing
I could find in the shed.
You don't have to wear it
if you don't want to.
Yes. I do.
At grandpa's funeral.
my dad said a man wears a suit
to show his respect.
You look very handsome.
Let's go.
Days like today…
they're not easy.
I'm not gonna stand here
and try to tell you that--
-Boyd.
-Just…
You need to eat.
I'm not hungry.
Hello.
Hey. Victor.
I…
When I was a boy. I drew pictures
so that the pictures will remember.
This is for you.
That's very sweet. Victor.
Thank you so much.
Can I go to the Colony House with Victor?
No. not today.
Please.
I don't want to be here.
Is that okay with you?
Yeah.
Okay.
Be safe. okay?
I'll make sure that
nothing happens to him. I promise.
Okay.
Here. you drink this.
and Bakta is just whipping you up
something to eat.
Has anything like that
ever happened before?
With the crows?
No.
I mean. everybody sees them
when they see the trees. but that's new.
When did it get like this?
What do you mean?
Well. Sara. the girl who helped me
with my glasses. she…
she said that after Sheriff Boyd
found the talismans.
that for a long time people were safe.
When did that change?
It was…
I guess it was around
the night that my dad died.
We had lost a family
the night before. the Pratts.
And then Jim and Tabitha.
the Matthews family.
they showed up with Jade.
They came all together?
Not in the same car.
just they got here at the same time.
And ever since then. things have been bad?
No. no. that's not what I mean.
Hey. Kenny.
You mind if I borrow him for a second?
-I'll be back.
-Come here a second.
Hey.
Sophia. right?
I'm Julie.
I know.
I just wanted to tell you I'm really sorry
about what happened to your dad.
How's she doing?
Honestly. I don't really know.
I mean. she prays a lot.
Are you fucking kidding me?
I… I didn't mean to upset you.
I'm sorry.
-What the fuck did you mean to do then?
-Hey. Julie.
No. she thinks it's our fault.
Hey. okay. everybody. let's take a breath.
Did you tell her that
all of the bad things started happening
because we came here?
No. no. that's-- No. I didn't say--
No. that's not what I meant.
Let's go home.
Fuck this.
This is not our home.
Julie.
Julie. stop!
-Do you think it's true?
-What?
That when we got here. that all
of the bad things that have happened
since we got here.
do you think it's our fault?
No. honey. Of course not.
Why did it feel like
those crows were celebrating?
Sophia.
I'm sorry. I didn't…
It's okay.
-We need to talk. Okay?
-Okay.
Poor Julie.
Yeah.
It seems like a lifetime ago
that we made that little space
for her in her room.
Yeah.
Hey.
You know. you haven't really talked much.
About what happened?
I'm trying to be okay.
I am. I just…
I'm trying to let go of this.
I just don't know how.
You know what? I have an idea.
Stay right there.
I gotta grab a few things.
Where are you going?
Stay right there. I'll be right back.
Oh. look.
Ethan. my dad is my roommate now.
It's… This is…
This is his bed right here.
Yeah. it's a good thing
that I threw all my stuff out the window
because then it made all this space.
It's nice having a roommate now. too…
because you have someone to talk to.
you know. if you're afraid.
And you can talk to me.
you know. if you're ever afraid.
Are there any lakes here?
What?
Lakes. Have you seen any lakes here?
There's the…
There's The Brundles.
That's not very far from here.
-Can we go see it?
-What? No. I don't like it there.
Water's creepy.
Please.
Why do you want to go see The Brundles?
Never mind. I'll find it myself.
No. but you're supposed
to stay here with me.
-I don't care.
-Well. I do.
-I just need to see the lake.
-Why?
Friends aren't supposed
to keep secrets. Ethan.
Fine.
If you take me to the lake. I'll tell you.
What are you doing out here?
Saw you walk off alone.
Thought you might be
doing something stupid.
like going back to the ruins.
Go away.
Julie.
I'm not going to the ruins. okay?
I need to get something from our house.
Okay.
Our old house.
The one that collapsed?
No. No fucking way.
I was inside that thing
when it came down. remember?
-Okay.
-It's too unstable.
Okay.
No. look. look.
All right. stop. stop. stop.
What's in there that's so important?
I told you that thing that I can do.
My brother called it Storywalking.
I learned about it from one of his books.
and all his books are under the house now.
And I need to know
if there's anything in there
about how to control it
so I can go back and save my dad
without getting killed.
And maybe that is stupid. okay?
But I'm not asking your permission.
I'm going.
So you can help me.
or you can leave me alone.
Give me that.
You still want that bullet?
There's something I need you
to do for me first.
-What's he doing?
-I think he's sleeping.
Jade?
What?
-Let's go.
-We just got here.
-It's not what I'm looking for.
-How do you know that?
I just do.
Ethan. you promised…
that if I brought you here.
you would tell me.
I need to find the Lake of Tears.
It's a lake with magical powers.
What kind of magical powers?
It can make people better
when they're hurt.
I thought I made it up.
But my dad told me it's here.
I need to find it.
When did he tell you that?
Yesterday… out by the RV.
Maybe once I find it.
it can make him better.
Maybe he'll come back.
Maybe Jade can help.
Jade!
Oh. for Christ's sakes. what?
We need to find the Lake of Tears.
The Lake of what?
It's a kid's book. though. right?
It's stories made up for little kids.
Before we got here. I thought
monsters were made up. too.
Fair point.
You good?
This is where I talked to my dad
the day the house collapsed.
He was still down there
when the sun was setting.
I was so scared that we were just
going to lose him right then and there.
He kept telling me
everything was going to be okay.
that I shouldn't be afraid.
Hey…
Why don't you let me do this?
What?
I can handle a couple of books.
Besides. someone's gonna need to be
up here if something happens. right?
No. No. I should be the…
-It's my thing. I should be the one--
-Hey. hey. hey.
Storywalker.
Why don't you let someone else
do the cool shit for change. huh?
It's good for my self-esteem.
There's a--
There's a way in over here.
In the story. Achan caused
the whole nation of Israel to suffer
because he offended God.
And that's what you told Julie.
I just thought that maybe if somehow
they brought some sort of ill--
Okay. stop.
The people here…
they're always one bad day away
from giving up.
Giving up. losing hope.
I know. it was-- It was…
I know.
Look.
We need to figure out
where you're going to live from now on.
Where do you live?
That big house up on the hill.
Colony House.
There's plenty of room there.
But there's so many people there.
-Yeah.
-Can't I just stay at the clinic?
Well. there's no extra rooms
in the clinic. so…
Where does Sara live?
What?
She was really nice to me.
That's not a good idea.
Because of… of what she did?
How did you…
I've… I've heard people talking.
Why would you want to live with her?
Because I've…
Because I've seen her kindness.
And I don't think she's a bad person.
You have no idea
the kind of person she is.
I can't see you at all.
Are you okay?
I'm fine.
Just letting my eyes adjust. that's all.
How many of these books
am I looking for. anyway?
He kept them all in a little blue bag.
They should be together.
Little blue bag. huh?
Piece of cake.
Randall?
I'm fine.
What are we doing here?
We got storage sheds around town.
Storage room in the diner.
They're filled with clothes. tools.
everything we thought would be useful.
This is everything else.
Okay.
I want you to treat this place
like a crime scene.
Like. these things.
they tell a story. right?
I want you to develop a narrative.
Tell me everything there is to know
about the people
this stuff belonged to.
Why?
Because I asked you to.
So why don't you do it?
You're a cop.
You were trained to do this. I wasn't.
There might be things we overlooked.
something that'll help us get out of here.
Tell me why we're really here.
-I just did.
-Bullshit.
Hey.
You better tell me why we're really here.
Because you remind me of someone.
All right?
You remind me
of someone
I could have helped and I didn't.
I don't get to get that back.
But I'm not gonna stand here and…
Look. I know you think
everything I said is bullshit.
And maybe it is.
Maybe it isn't. right?
But if you do this for me.
think about all the people
you might be helping.
the people you might be saving.
You think about the cop
who first put that badge on.
You do all that
and you still want that bullet…
then yeah. we'll talk.
It's a promise.
Donna?
I think she went back to town.
You need something?
No. I'm okay.
Are you?
Forty years. I sat in my house
after my family disappeared.
I was a lot of things.
"Okay" was never one of them.
-I should go home.
-Where are you headed?
Just going home.
Well. I'll walk with you.
Henry. no. It's okay.
I can go by myself.
But. Tabitha. I don't think
you should be alone right now.
So where are you really going?
I'm going home.
And where are you going after that?
Henry. I don't know
what you're talking about.
Sure you do.
You're good at a lot of things. Tabitha.
Lying is definitely not among them.
So we can play the whole charade
of me dropping you off
at your house and then waiting
to see where else you go.
Okay. I'm going to find
the lighthouse. okay?
I'm gonna find my way back
to the lighthouse.
I got out of here once.
If I find the lighthouse. maybe. maybe.
hopefully I can do it again
and take my children with me.
I'm not gonna let them die here.
How? Donna said no one knows
where the lighthouse is.
No. they don't.
That's why I have to do it again.
like I did the last time.
I have to go through The Bottle Tree
The man in the pool. Dale. right?
He died when he tried going through.
Yeah. but… Okay. what if it was…
What if it was not meant for him?
What if it was only meant for me?
And what if you're wrong?
What if you end up stuck in the side
of God-knows-what. somewhere...
Well. I don't know. I don't know. Henry.
I have to try.
Okay.
-I'm coming with you.
-No. Henry.
You said you're going
to The Bottle Tree. right?
I want to see it. I want to see
the tree my wife died trying to reach.
Henry. I have to tell you something.
She was my wife.
Please.
Okay. Let's go.
-Okay.
-Yeah.
Where are we going?
Just a little further.
Why won't you tell me what's in the bag?
You'll see.
Ever heard of a rage room?
They're really popular in Japan.
Sort of a way to lash out.
You know. let go without hurting somebody
or breaking shit that you need.
Ellis. this is really sweet.
but I don't know
how this is going to help.
When my mom died.
you were the one that brought me back.
You didn't even know me very well.
But you knew that I was still in there.
underneath all the…
the dark. horrible shit
that I was going through.
And you never gave up on me.
Not until you finally pulled me out.
It's my turn now.
Give it a shot.
So…
you want the crowbar?
Or the bat?
Definitely the bat.
That's my girl.
It's all yours.
Okay. so let me get this straight.
You made up this Lake of Tears
as part of a game
that you used to play with finger puppets.
It wasn't a game.
It was a story.
Okay. so you told a story about this lake.
some finger puppets. and now…
Now what? You think the lake is here
because your dad told you
that you need to find it?
Maybe I didn't make it up.
Maybe I just thought I did.
I'm confused.
Do you remember the red rocks
we found at the settlement?
-Yeah.
-My mom thought she made them up
because she used to have
nightmares about them.
But the reason she saw those rocks
was because they were here.
Maybe it's the same with the lake.
Maybe I used it in my story…
because it's real and I just didn't know.
What were you doing at The Brundles?
It's an old meditation technique.
Why were you meditating?
Because I…
I'm trying to remember something.
I'm trying remember something
that I used to know.
Something that'll help us leave.
So we're both looking for something
that can help everyone.
Yeah. I guess we are.
Hey. Victor. we got a lake to find.
Victor?
Hey.
What is that?
Victor.
Victor!
Victor! Come on.
-Victor!
Jesus!
Fuck!
What?
Nothing. I'm good.
Oh. fuck.
I see the bag.
Kenny.
Is everything all right?
Sophia and I have been talking about
where she wants to live from now on.
Okay.
And if it's all right. she would like
to live here with you.
Okay. Sure.
Okay.
Okay. Come on.
Let's go.
Randall?
Randall. what's going on?
Just give me a sec.
I got the bag.
What are the titles?
I got…
Grand Gooligog. the Cromenockle.
Okay. that's them. Get out of there.
Yeah. all right.
Just you and me. pal.
Fuck.
Fuck!
Randall?
I'm okay.
Better?
A little. yeah.
Well. it's a start. right?
Yeah.
I'm gonna… I'm gonna go take a nap.
Yeah. I told Donna that I was
going to start getting things ready
for the food run tomorrow.
-Okay.
And hey…
thank you for today.
You're welcome.
It's me.
I did the best I could.
Think it's going to be enough?
It's a great start.
but I think we're going to need
a little bit more.
Well…
Victor told me this is where
Miranda was going when she died.
He took me to her grave. but I…
I don't think he could bear
to take me here.
This looks just like the one
she made back home.
Except for this.
Go back to town. Henry.
-Tabitha. you can't do this.
-Henry. please. I…
Look. I was hoping you'd realize it
on your own by the time we got here.
Henry. I told you. The tree is the one
-that's gonna let me go through.
-Yes. the tree is meant only for you.
And what if it isn't?
What if you're wrong?
What if you end up stuck
in some walls somewhere.
gasping for air. alone?
What happens to Julie and Ethan?
I left a note for Donna.
She'll make sure to take care of them.
-You left a note?
-Yes. I did.
Boy. well.
I didn't realize you'd left a note.
I'm sure they'll be just fine.
Am I supposed to do nothing?
Finding the lighthouse could be
what gets everyone home.
-And if it's not?
-I don't know. I'll try something else.
-Not if you're dead!
-Then what the fuck
am I supposed to do. Henry?
-Move! Please.
-I don't know!
I don't know. I wish I did know.
But if you want to go through this tree…
you're gonna have
to go through me first.
Henry. move.
Please. Henry.
Your kids need you.
Ethan and Julie.
Tabitha?
Here.
Why are you here?
Why do you look so different?
Those are the wrong questions.
Will that tree take me back
to the lighthouse?
I don't think so.
Wait. you don't think so?
You told me it was the only way.
It was. but that was before.
Yeah. but before.
Okay. you need to stop talking in riddles.
You're getting so close now.
but I'm afraid you're running out of time.
Victor!
-Okay.
-It came from over there. Come on.
Victor!
What happened?
-Ethan?
-We're over here!
Ethan!
Honey.
-Honey.
-Victor.
Hey.
Hey. talk to me. son.
I told…
I told myself it wasn't real.
It's okay. buddy.
It's okay.
You're all right. son.
It's okay. son. It's okay.
It's all right. You're all right.
It's all right. Hey. hey.
I'll be damned.
Hey. Abs.
Been a while.
Things are…
Yeah. things are changing.
I am changing.
Done some things recently.
You know. said some things.
I don't know if I like who I'm becoming.
But I don't know who else to be.
Tabitha and Jade…
if what they're saying.
what they remember.
if it's true.
it feels like for the first time…
we're close to something.
but none of it matters
if I can't hold these people together.
If I lose these people right now. I…
Yeah.
I could really use some help.
I don't know if there's anything
you can do. but…
if you can hear me…
What the… Hey!
No. no. no! No! Hey. hey! Hey. hey!
What the…
What the fuck is…